# ArcGIS-Script-Tool-for-Flood-Extraction-from-Optical-Satellite-Data

This ArcGIS pro Flood Extent Estimator Script Tool can delineate the areas which are affected by a flood. 
Accordingly, it can provide decision makers with the information to estimate the amount of businesses and residency effected of flooding. 
Therefore, they can determine flood impacts, estimate sources and take immediate emergency response.

This Script Tool is underdevelopment and at this stage for running the Script Tool, some preprocessing steps are needed to generate a proper shapefile for using as an input in the Flood Extent Estimator Script tool. 
These steps are provided in detail in the "User Manual" of the script tool in the "Doc" folder.

Parameters of the Flood Extent Estimator Script Tool:

Input parameters:
- The OBIA image segmentation shapefile which contains image segmentation polygons of the imagery (for prediction).
- Random Forest weight functions which are generated by training the Random Forest Model.
- Defining output raster pixel size.
- Defining an address and a name for output Raster.


Output result:
Output result of this Script Tool is an imagery which predicts flood (wet) and non-flood (dry) areas.

Important notes:
With this Script Tool, you can find “SampleData” folder which contains all the required sample data for running the Script Tool. 
It is strongly recommended that to read "User Manual" of this Script Tool in the "Doc" folder before starting to use FloodExtent Script Tool.
Please kindly let me know if you face any issue, error, bug or problem during working with the FloodExtent Script Tool.
